# CHANGELOG
## v6.2.0
* Baseline (http://selection.med.yale.edu/baseline) has now been integrated to
  calculate clonal selection pressure during clone statistic calculations.
* Clone comparison now only allows one clone to be selected.
* Modification log messages now added at each pipeline stage.
* Mutations are now precalculated for all sequences and clones.
* Mutations can now be exported for both clones and samples.
* All pipeline stages now use the multiprocessing module to parallelize
  processing.

## v6.1.2
* Mutations can now be filtered by occurrence frequency via the REST API.

## v6.1.1
* `sldb_sample_stats` now accepts the `--clones-only` flag which, when set, will
  cause sample statistics only to be generated for clone filters.  Useful for
  updates to clonal assignment methods.
* Fixed a bug where exporting sequences did not return the CDR3 NTs, AAs, or
  length.
* V-gene names are now lexicographically sorted when requested via the REST API.
* `sldb_clones` now accepts the `--order` flag which will sort sequences by copy
  number for clonal assignment.

## v6.1.0
* Clone stats are now properly updated when `--force` flag is passed.
* Indels are now flagged for percentage mismatch in addition to windowed mutations.
* The `get_stats` API call now allows for stats to be grouped by any attribute defined in the `Sample` model.
* `sldb_sample_stats` now takes a `--clones-only` flag to only regenerate clone statistics for samples.
* CDR3 AA and CDR3 length are now properly exported.
* Lineage trees generated by neighbor joining can no longer have a zero-mutation node as the root.
* The `v_usage` API call now provides a list of groupings for the selected samples and sorts the returned V-genes.

## v6.0.3
* All duplicate sequences are now properly assigned an entry in the `Sequences` table, removing cycles from `DuplicateSequences`.
* Clones can now have a different V gene assigned or gaps added manually via the `sldb_modify_clone` command.
  * Modifications via `sldb_modify_clone` are recorded and can be fetched with the `modification_log` API call.  Other manual modification should make use of the `ModificationLog` model.
* Neighbor joining now properly calculates copy number.
* `sldb_clone_stats` can now be limited by clone ID.

## v6.0.2
* Rows summing total/unique sequences cross all samples can be included in clone
 exports.
* Neighbor joining now added as a method of lineage tree creation.
* Fixed incorrect unique sequence count in clone comparison.

## v6.0.0
* V gene usage API tweak to allow for exporting via website.
* Mutation frequency is now calculated for various thresholds.
* HighV-Quest output can now be imported with the `sldb_hvquest` binary.
 * Optionally, V-ties can be calculated in addition to the Vs specified
* Sequences with probable indels or misalignments are excluded from clonal
  assignment by default.  Override this behavior in `sldb_clones` with
  `--include-indels`.
* Major data-model changes:
 * Consolidated `SequenceMapping` to `Sequence` model to reduce joining.
 * `SampleStatistics` changed to match updated `Sequence` model.
 * Added `CloneStats` model to reduce API query time.
* Added binary `sldb_clone_stats` to populate `CloneStats` models.
* Renamed `aggregation/stats.py` to `aggregation/sample_stats.py` and
`sldb_stats` binary to `sldb_sample_stats` for new clone statistics scripts.
* Can now export both sequences and clones.  Re-architected exporting classes.

## v5.0.1
* Fixed case where duplicate sequences were incorrectly inserted.

## v5.0.0
* **First stable release**
* Duplicate sequences are now detected during identification and not
re-identified.
* Metadata fallthrough to "all" block properly during identification.
* pRESTO references removed in favor of "R1+R2"
* Insertion/deletion check based on sliding window.
* V and J ties now calculated on a per-sample basis.
* Major changes and fixes to V/J identification:
  * V gene alleles can now be identified and must be separated with an asterisk
    (e.g.  IGHV4-34*01).
  * Anchors are now found using reversed frame-shifting if forward
  * frame-shifting yields a no-result.
  * V and J genes now match into the CDR3 based on sliding window.
  * Germlines can now be specified during identification.  Note each germline name
    must refer to a unique sequence.
